_work_items/amazon-explore.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Amazon Explore"
description: "Amazon Explore called for a presence-building, browser-based streaming UI for customers and an app and gimbal to deliver experiences for guides."
order: 3
featured: amazon-explore-customer-in-session-shoppping.png
meta: [Amazon Explore, Design, 2020–2021]
---

Amazon Explore is a virtual tour product consisting of guides (local experts) who sell virtual experiences on a new Amazon marketplace for customers to enjoy from their couch.

My responsibilities include sole ownership of the customer in-session streaming UX/UI design (including audio/video controls, alerts and communication messaging, shopping confirmation, and multi-user support) and the  UX/UI design of the app our experts use to deliver these experiences (including providing scheduling, hardware checks, playing in-session media content, creating shopping carts, receiving alerts and messaging, etc.).

![Amazon Explore Design 1](/images/projects/amazon-explore-customer-in-session.png){: class="col-span-2" height="2050" width="2880" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 5](/images/projects/amazon-explore-customer-in-session-shoppping.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 4](/images/projects/amazon-explore-customer-in-session-shopping-responsive.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline class="my-10 w-full h-auto" loading="lazy">
	<source src="/images/projects/amazon-explore-shopping-responsive.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

![Amazon Explore Design 7](/images/projects/amazon-explore-external-speaker.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 8](/images/projects/amazon-explore-photo-tooltip.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline class="my-10 w-full h-auto" loading="lazy">
	<source src="/images/projects/amazon-explore-take-photo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

![Amazon Explore Design 6](/images/projects/amazon-explore-toast.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 10](/images/projects/amazon-explore-host-out.png){: class="col-span-2 border border-gray-200" height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 10](/images/projects/amazon-explore-host-out-2.png){: class="col-span-2 border border-gray-200" height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 9](/images/projects/amazon-explore-host-in-session.png){: class="col-span-2 border border-gray-200" height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}

Commit message:

Revise and expand project case studies for clarity
Rewrote and expanded multiple project case studies in the _work_items directory for Amazon and Carta projects. Updates include clearer problem statements, more detailed process descriptions, and improved explanations of design decisions and impact. The Cityblock case study was also restructured and rewritten for narrative clarity and detail.

_work_items/amazon-explore.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Amazon Explore"
description: "Designing a browser-based streaming interface for virtual tours and a mobile app for guides delivering live experiences worldwide."
order: 3
featured: amazon-explore-customer-in-session-shoppping.png
meta: [Amazon Explore, Design, 2020–2021]
---

Amazon Explore is a virtual tour product where local guides stream live experiences to customers at home. A guide in Tokyo walks through a market while a customer in Ohio watches, asks questions, and shops for items the guide can ship to them.

I owned the design of both sides of this experience: the customer-facing streaming UI in the browser and the guide-facing mobile app used to deliver experiences.

For the customer side, I designed the in-session streaming UX/UI including audio/video controls, alerts and communication messaging, shopping confirmation, and multi-user support. The challenge was keeping UI elements out of the way so customers could feel present in the streamed environment while still having access to controls when needed.

For the guide app, I designed scheduling, hardware checks, playing in-session media content, creating shopping carts, and receiving alerts and messaging. Guides are walking through busy streets, holding a phone on a gimbal, narrating live. The app needed to be glanceable at arm's length and not distract from the experience they're delivering. I designed toast notifications, audio cues, and a minimal interface that let guides focus on their surroundings rather than their screen.

The product launched in 2020 with a 4.8/5 customer satisfaction score.

![Amazon Explore Design 1](/images/projects/amazon-explore-customer-in-session.png){: class="col-span-2" height="2050" width="2880" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 5](/images/projects/amazon-explore-customer-in-session-shoppping.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 4](/images/projects/amazon-explore-customer-in-session-shopping-responsive.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline class="my-10 w-full h-auto" loading="lazy">
	<source src="/images/projects/amazon-explore-shopping-responsive.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

![Amazon Explore Design 7](/images/projects/amazon-explore-external-speaker.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 8](/images/projects/amazon-explore-photo-tooltip.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline class="my-10 w-full h-auto" loading="lazy">
	<source src="/images/projects/amazon-explore-take-photo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

![Amazon Explore Design 6](/images/projects/amazon-explore-toast.png){: height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 10](/images/projects/amazon-explore-host-out.png){: class="col-span-2 border border-gray-200" height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 10](/images/projects/amazon-explore-host-out-2.png){: class="col-span-2 border border-gray-200" height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
![Amazon Explore Design 9](/images/projects/amazon-explore-host-in-session.png){: class="col-span-2 border border-gray-200" height="" width="" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}
