_work_items/barack-obamas-tumblr.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Barack Obama's Tumblr"
description: "Desktop and mobile template designs for Barack Obama's 2012 reelection campaign's Tumblr page."
order: 14
featured: barack-obama-tumblr-1.png
meta: [Barack Obama Reelection Campaign, Design, Development, September 2011]
---

I joined the Barack Obama Reelection Campaign as a Front-End Developer. My responsibilities included the creation and maintenance of donation forms including front-end form validation, error handling, embedded video, mobile layout considerations, A/B testing, and constant modifications and troubleshooting.

I was also solely responsible for the development of the campaign's Tumblr which required learning Tumblr's templating language as well as defining mobile breakpoints and layouts.

![Barack Obama's Tumblr 1](/images/projects/barack-obama-tumblr-1.png){: class="col-span-2" height="790" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Barack Obama's Tumblr 2](/images/projects/barack-obama-tumblr-2.png){: height="811" width="468" loading="lazy"}
![Barack Obama's Tumblr 3](/images/projects/barack-obama-tumblr-3.png){: height="790" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}

Commit message:

Revise and clarify project descriptions for multiple work items
Updated the content and descriptions for several project markdown files to improve clarity, conciseness, and accuracy. Changes include rewording project summaries, refining role descriptions, updating outcomes, and enhancing readability across the following work items: Barack Obama's Tumblr, Bauer Latoza Studio, Coyote Howl, Coyote LTL Quote, Coyote My Tasks, Coyote TMS, Shuffl, and Tech for Campaigns.

_work_items/barack-obamas-tumblr.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Barack Obama's Tumblr"
description: "Desktop and mobile templates for the 2012 Obama reelection campaign's Tumblr, plus donation form development."
order: 14
featured: barack-obama-tumblr-1.png
meta: [Obama 2012 Campaign, Design, Development, September 2011]
---

I joined the Barack Obama 2012 reelection campaign as a front-end developer. My responsibilities included creating and maintaining donation forms with front-end validation, error handling, embedded video, mobile layouts, A/B testing, and constant modifications and troubleshooting.

I was also solely responsible for developing the campaign's Tumblr. This required learning Tumblr's templating language and defining mobile breakpoints and layouts.

![Barack Obama's Tumblr 1](/images/projects/barack-obama-tumblr-1.png){: class="col-span-2" height="790" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Barack Obama's Tumblr 2](/images/projects/barack-obama-tumblr-2.png){: height="811" width="468" loading="lazy"}
![Barack Obama's Tumblr 3](/images/projects/barack-obama-tumblr-3.png){: height="790" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}
