_work_items/carta-admin-dashboard.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Carta Public Admin Dashboard"
description: "Carta Public administrators needed a more useful dashboard that helped them get jobs done."
order: 2
featured: carta-admin-summary-mvp.png
meta: [Carta, Design, 2022]
---

Public company administrators were greeted with an unhelpful, confusing landing page when they sign in to Carta's Public platform. The team (four engineers, a product manager, and myself) was given two weeks (design and development) to create something more welcoming and useful.

I quickly gathered data by interviewing account managers and analyzing analytics trying to answer three questions: what are the most common jobs administrators want to do, what are the most common jobs they actually do, and what are the most common jobs Carta wants them to do. I used these answers to then worked with the Product Manager to determine appropriate data to display. I collaborated with other design teams to create a scalable dashboard design for multiple user types across Carta's different platforms.

The final deliverables were a simple design structure shared with other teams for adoption, a north star solution, and an MVP solution for my team to build within the allotted time. I worked with the team and made many compromises based on service and data limitations and was able to ship the dashboard within the short time-frame.

![Carta Public Admin Dashboard Screen Shot 1](/images/projects/carta-admin-summary-structure.png){: class="border border-gray-200" loading="lazy"}
![Carta Public Admin Dashboard Screen Shot 2](/images/projects/carta-admin-summary-long-term.png){: class="border border-gray-200" loading="lazy"}
![Carta Public Admin Dashboard Screen Shot 3](/images/projects/carta-admin-summary-mvp.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}

Commit message:

Revise and expand project case studies for clarity
Rewrote and expanded multiple project case studies in the _work_items directory for Amazon and Carta projects. Updates include clearer problem statements, more detailed process descriptions, and improved explanations of design decisions and impact. The Cityblock case study was also restructured and rewritten for narrative clarity and detail.

_work_items/carta-admin-dashboard.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Carta Public Admin Dashboard"
description: "A two-week sprint to replace an unhelpful landing page with a dashboard that actually helped administrators get work done."
order: 2
featured: carta-admin-summary-mvp.png
meta: [Carta, Design, 2022]
---

Public company administrators on Carta were greeted with an unhelpful landing page after signing in. It didn't surface pending tasks, relevant metrics, or shortcuts to common actions. Users immediately navigated away to find what they needed.

The team (four engineers, a product manager, and myself) had two weeks to design and ship something better.

I started by answering three questions: What do administrators want to do? What do they actually do? What does Carta want them to do? I interviewed account managers and analyzed usage data to find the overlap.

The answers shaped the dashboard: surface pending tasks, show key metrics at a glance, and provide shortcuts to the most common workflows. I collaborated with other design teams to create a scalable dashboard structure that could be adopted across Carta's platforms.

We shipped the MVP within the two-week window. The dashboard reduced time-to-task for common actions and gave administrators a reason to start their session on the landing page instead of navigating past it.

![Carta Public Admin Dashboard Screen Shot 1](/images/projects/carta-admin-summary-structure.png){: class="border border-gray-200" loading="lazy"}
![Carta Public Admin Dashboard Screen Shot 2](/images/projects/carta-admin-summary-long-term.png){: class="border border-gray-200" loading="lazy"}
![Carta Public Admin Dashboard Screen Shot 3](/images/projects/carta-admin-summary-mvp.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}
