_work_items/coyote-ltl-quote.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Coyote LTL Quote"
description: "A less than truckload (LTL) quoting and shipping tool so Coyote Logistics could remain competitive in the market."
order: 9
featured: ltl-1.png
meta: [Coyote Logistics, Design, Development, Summer 2015]
---

Coyote was losing significant business because it lacked a less than truckload (LTL) quoting and shipping tool. I worked with a Business Analyst, a Product Manager, an overseas development team, and various stakeholders&mdash;some familiar and others brand new to the world of LTL. The tool was built over the course of 4 months within Coyote.com, Coyote's web app for shippers and carriers.

The requirements shifted often, first as a tool for potential customers to quote shipments, and later restricted to customers already partnered with Coyote to quote and book LTL shipments. My role included requirements gathering, user testing, front-end development, and design.

---

## Sketches

Even though the business had a tight timeline of three months for development, walking stakeholders through paper and pen sketches exposed the lack of shared knowledge and unified vision for this tool. It forced the stakeholders to come to an agreement on what would and would not be included. Eventually, the quick quote for unauthorized users was cut from this project.

![LTL Quote Sketch 1](/images/projects/ltl-sketch-1.jpg){: height="2000" width="1467" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Sketch 2](/images/projects/ltl-sketch-2.jpg){: height="2000" width="1533" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Sketch 3](/images/projects/ltl-sketch-3.jpg){: height="2000" width="1534" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Sketch 4](/images/projects/ltl-sketch-4.jpg){: height="2000" width="1539" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-3"}

---

## Wireframes

Early on we decided on a step form wizard. While I was designing workflow for this, our in-house development team started work on implementing a 3rd party API to collect and present carrier quotes. Combining the team's API findings and the stakeholders' evolving requirements based on mockup discussion and feedback meant much time was spent adding, moving, and removing fields from our form.

![LTL Quote Wireframe 1](/images/projects/ltl-wf-0.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 2](/images/projects/ltl-wf-1.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 3](/images/projects/ltl-wf-2.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 4](/images/projects/ltl-wf-3.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 5](/images/projects/ltl-wf-4.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 6](/images/projects/ltl-wf-5.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 7](/images/projects/ltl-wf-6.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 8](/images/projects/ltl-wf-7.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 9](/images/projects/ltl-wf-8.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-3"}

---

## Early Design

I built a working prototype on Bootstrap that roughly matched our app and began user testing various form designs. Initially, I designed a step that combined pickup and delivery details with the summary but user testing proved this to be quite confusing so each step was moved to its own page.

This design also featured an unrefined version of the timeline that had navigation issue during user testing so a new design was implemented that improved on this slightly.

![LTL Quote Early Design](/images/projects/ltl-initial-3b.png){: height="1093" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery"}

---

## Final Design

Once the API requirements had been resolved, the Pune team built out a rough version of the step form wizard which I later refined and added animations and transitions to. I also ran a few user tests and revealed usability issues regarding shipping to an already saved address verse creating a new one which was worked out.

The tool was released first to a limited set of beta users and later to all of Coyote's shippers. It's now being used countless times daily.

![Coyote LTL Quote Final 1](/images/projects/ltl-1.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="996" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 2](/images/projects/ltl-2.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 3](/images/projects/ltl-3.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 4](/images/projects/ltl-4.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 5](/images/projects/ltl-5.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 6](/images/projects/ltl-6.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="957" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery"}

Commit message:

Revise and clarify project descriptions for multiple work items
Updated the content and descriptions for several project markdown files to improve clarity, conciseness, and accuracy. Changes include rewording project summaries, refining role descriptions, updating outcomes, and enhancing readability across the following work items: Barack Obama's Tumblr, Bauer Latoza Studio, Coyote Howl, Coyote LTL Quote, Coyote My Tasks, Coyote TMS, Shuffl, and Tech for Campaigns.

_work_items/coyote-ltl-quote.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Coyote LTL Quote"
description: "A quoting and booking tool for less-than-truckload shipments, built in 4 months to keep Coyote competitive."
order: 9
featured: ltl-1.png
meta: [Coyote Logistics, Design, Development, Summer 2015]
---

Coyote was losing significant business because it lacked a less-than-truckload (LTL) quoting and shipping tool. I worked with a business analyst, a product manager, an overseas development team, and various stakeholders, some familiar with LTL and others brand new to it. The tool was built over 4 months within Coyote.com.

Requirements shifted throughout the project. It started as a tool for potential customers to quote shipments, then was restricted to existing customers who could quote and book LTL shipments. My role included requirements gathering, user testing, front-end development, and design.

---

## Sketches

Even with a tight three-month development timeline, walking stakeholders through paper sketches exposed the lack of shared knowledge and unified vision. It forced agreement on what would and would not be included. The quick quote for unauthorized users was eventually cut.

![LTL Quote Sketch 1](/images/projects/ltl-sketch-1.jpg){: height="2000" width="1467" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Sketch 2](/images/projects/ltl-sketch-2.jpg){: height="2000" width="1533" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Sketch 3](/images/projects/ltl-sketch-3.jpg){: height="2000" width="1534" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Sketch 4](/images/projects/ltl-sketch-4.jpg){: height="2000" width="1539" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-3"}

---

## Wireframes

We decided early on to use a step-form wizard. While I designed the workflow, the in-house development team implemented a third-party API to collect and present carrier quotes. Combining API findings with evolving stakeholder requirements meant constant changes to form fields.

![LTL Quote Wireframe 1](/images/projects/ltl-wf-0.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 2](/images/projects/ltl-wf-1.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 3](/images/projects/ltl-wf-2.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 4](/images/projects/ltl-wf-3.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 5](/images/projects/ltl-wf-4.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 6](/images/projects/ltl-wf-5.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 7](/images/projects/ltl-wf-6.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 8](/images/projects/ltl-wf-7.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
![LTL Quote Wireframe 9](/images/projects/ltl-wf-8.png){: height="768" width="839" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-3"}

---

## Early Design

I built a working prototype on Bootstrap that roughly matched our app and began user testing. Initially I combined pickup and delivery details with the summary in one step, but testing proved this confusing. Each step moved to its own page.

The design also featured an early version of a timeline that had navigation issues during testing. I implemented a new design that improved on this.

![LTL Quote Early Design](/images/projects/ltl-initial-3b.png){: height="1093" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery"}

---

## Final Design

Once API requirements were resolved, the Pune team built a rough version of the wizard which I refined with animations and transitions. I ran additional user tests and found usability issues with shipping to saved addresses versus creating new ones, which we resolved.

The tool released first to beta users, then to all Coyote shippers. It's now used countless times daily.

![Coyote LTL Quote Final 1](/images/projects/ltl-1.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="996" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 2](/images/projects/ltl-2.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 3](/images/projects/ltl-3.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 4](/images/projects/ltl-4.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 5](/images/projects/ltl-5.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote LTL Quote Final 6](/images/projects/ltl-6.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="957" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery"}
