_work_items/coyote-my-tasks.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Coyote My Tasks"
description: "A dashboard that presents Coyote customers with high level freight information, tasks and todo items, and a quick way to complete them."
order: 11
featured: my-tasks-1.png
meta: [Coyote Logistics, Design, Development, July 2015]
---

Coyote provides shippers with up-to-the-minute delivery tracking information through web and mobile apps. Location information is provided by drivers using Coyote's mobile app or website but if carriers fail to do this, Coyote representatives have to call drivers for location updates, taking time away from booking new freight.

Stakeholders predicted that an improved experience and workflow for updating loads could double self-tracking to 40%. This problem was given to me, a Stakeholder, a Business Analyst, and a development team in Pune, Maharashtra, India to solve. Our solution was a landing page where users are presented with outstanding tasks and a quick way to complete them.

---

## Sketches

The paper and pen phase of this project was quick and used to explore a few solutions to the problem. The team met and decided on one design idea. Requirements gathering was easy as most of the tasks were already defined in other areas of the app. The hard part here was deciding when a task became important enough to warrant a spot on this page as there are many tasks required by any given carrier user on our website.

![My Tasks Sketch 1](/images/projects/my-tasks-sketch-1.jpg){: height="2000" width="1551" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-3"}

---

## Wireframes

After putting together wireframes of our solution and running user tests with carrier and the reps that manually track them, we quickly found a problem with our solution—while gathering all the tasks into one, easy to use interface solved half the problem, sending them to other areas of the site to complete the task slowed them down. So we decided to implement an actionable sidebar to complete each task without having to leave this page.


![My Tasks Wireframe 1](/images/projects/my-tasks-wf-0.png){: height="948" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![My Tasks Wireframe 2](/images/projects/my-tasks-wf-1.png){: height="1000" width="1199" loading="lazy"}
![My Tasks Wireframe 3](/images/projects/my-tasks-wf-2.png){: height="999" width="1199" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-3"}

---

## Final Design

Adding an actionable sidebar increased the effort to complete this project considerably so we built the project in phases, allowing other projects and features to take priority in between.

With the release of each phase, the amount of self-tracking increased, eventually surpassing our 40% goal. Other parts of the business have seen this feature and are now developing their own "My Tasks" pages to help solve similar problems.

![Coyote My Tasks Final](/images/projects/my-tasks-1.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery"}

Commit message:

Revise and clarify project descriptions for multiple work items
Updated the content and descriptions for several project markdown files to improve clarity, conciseness, and accuracy. Changes include rewording project summaries, refining role descriptions, updating outcomes, and enhancing readability across the following work items: Barack Obama's Tumblr, Bauer Latoza Studio, Coyote Howl, Coyote LTL Quote, Coyote My Tasks, Coyote TMS, Shuffl, and Tech for Campaigns.

_work_items/coyote-my-tasks.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Coyote My Tasks"
description: "A task dashboard that doubled carrier self-tracking from 20% to over 40%, reducing manual calls from Coyote reps."
order: 11
featured: my-tasks-1.png
meta: [Coyote Logistics, Design, Development, July 2015]
---

Coyote provides shippers with real-time delivery tracking through web and mobile apps. Location information comes from drivers using Coyote's mobile app or website. But when carriers fail to update, Coyote representatives have to call drivers manually for location updates, taking time away from booking new freight.

Stakeholders predicted that an improved experience for updating loads could double self-tracking to 40%. I worked with a stakeholder, a business analyst, and a development team in Pune, India to solve this problem.

Our solution was a landing page that presents users with outstanding tasks and a quick way to complete them.

---

## Sketches

The paper and pen phase was quick, used to explore a few solutions. The team met and decided on one direction. Requirements gathering was straightforward since most tasks were already defined elsewhere in the app. The hard part was deciding when a task became important enough to warrant a spot on this page, since carrier users have many tasks to complete.

![My Tasks Sketch 1](/images/projects/my-tasks-sketch-1.jpg){: height="2000" width="1551" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-3"}

---

## Wireframes

After wireframing the solution and running user tests with carriers and the reps who manually track them, we found a problem. Gathering all tasks into one interface solved half the problem, but sending users to other areas of the site to complete each task slowed them down.

We decided to add an actionable sidebar so users could complete tasks without leaving the page.

![My Tasks Wireframe 1](/images/projects/my-tasks-wf-0.png){: height="948" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
![My Tasks Wireframe 2](/images/projects/my-tasks-wf-1.png){: height="1000" width="1199" loading="lazy"}
![My Tasks Wireframe 3](/images/projects/my-tasks-wf-2.png){: height="999" width="1199" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-3"}

---

## Final Design

Adding the actionable sidebar increased the effort considerably, so we built the project in phases, allowing other projects to take priority in between.

With each phase release, self-tracking increased, eventually surpassing our 40% goal. Other parts of the business saw this feature and began developing their own My Tasks pages to solve similar problems.

![Coyote My Tasks Final](/images/projects/my-tasks-1.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="1033" width="1200" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery"}
