_work_items/coyote-tms.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Coyote TMS Platform"
description: "Large web platform and application for shippers and trucking companies to manage freight."
order: 12
featured: coyote-tms-1.png
meta: [Coyote Logistics, Design, Development, 2012–2015]
---

While at Coyote I worked on many different projects, the largest of which was their business-to-business Transportation Management System (TMS). Working with a team of 20 developers, I was responsible for every page's overall design and user interface, the implementation, development, and maintenance of the app's CSS framework and HTML, and the occasional copy-writing. This required great effective communication, teamwork, and an acute attention to detail. As with most projects at Coyote, my responsibilities on this project grew to span across many roles including Business Analyst, Quality Assurance Tester, UX Designer, and UI Designer.

![Coyote TMS Platform 1](/images/projects/coyote-tms-1.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" height="884" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 2](/images/projects/coyote-tms-2.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" height="990" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 3](/images/projects/coyote-tms-3.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" height="884" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 4](/images/projects/coyote-tms-4.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" height="884" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 5](/images/projects/coyote-tms-5.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="884" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 6](/images/projects/coyote-tms-6.png){: height="972" width="768" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}

Commit message:

Revise and clarify project descriptions for multiple work items
Updated the content and descriptions for several project markdown files to improve clarity, conciseness, and accuracy. Changes include rewording project summaries, refining role descriptions, updating outcomes, and enhancing readability across the following work items: Barack Obama's Tumblr, Bauer Latoza Studio, Coyote Howl, Coyote LTL Quote, Coyote My Tasks, Coyote TMS, Shuffl, and Tech for Campaigns.

_work_items/coyote-tms.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Coyote TMS Platform"
description: "Designing and building the front-end for a transportation management system used by shippers and trucking companies."
order: 12
featured: coyote-tms-1.png
meta: [Coyote Logistics, Design, Development, 2012–2015]
---

The largest project I worked on at Coyote was their business-to-business Transportation Management System (TMS), a web platform for shippers and trucking companies to manage freight.

Working with a team of 20 developers, I was responsible for every page's overall design and user interface, the implementation and maintenance of the app's CSS framework and HTML, and occasional copywriting. This required effective communication, teamwork, and attention to detail.

As with most projects at Coyote, my responsibilities grew to span multiple roles: Business Analyst, Quality Assurance Tester, UX Designer, and UI Designer.

![Coyote TMS Platform 1](/images/projects/coyote-tms-1.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" height="884" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 2](/images/projects/coyote-tms-2.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" height="990" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 3](/images/projects/coyote-tms-3.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" height="884" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 4](/images/projects/coyote-tms-4.png){: class="border border-gray-200 col-span-2" height="884" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 5](/images/projects/coyote-tms-5.png){: class="border border-gray-200" height="884" width="1024" loading="lazy"}
![Coyote TMS Platform 6](/images/projects/coyote-tms-6.png){: height="972" width="768" loading="lazy"}
{: class="gallery grid-cols-2"}
